Speakers' Information:
Dan Olsen: Let's get to the reason we're here tonight, ash. I'm really excited to have Ash back again. He is the author of Running Lean, which I'm sure a lot of you familiar with. And we're here tonight because the third edition recently came out, is going to be sharing advice on the innovator's gift love the problem.

Ash Maurya: To build better products.

Dan Olsen: He and I share a love for the problem space over the solution space. He is the CEO of Lean. Stack is formerly CEO of Wired Reach, one of the early Lean Startup kind of thought leaders out there. I'm sure most of you have used a Lean canvas more than once in your career, so he created that. And so with that, Ash, I'd love to turn over and hear what he have to say.

Ash Maurya: What I wanted to share with you today was this idea of the innovators gifts. I'll contextualize it as we go along. Before we get to all of that, I'll share a little puzzle for you to ponder. So you see here a music timeline. Place yourself somewhere on this journey. I'm guessing that most of you started listening to music somewhere along the spectrum. At the risk of dating myself, I'll admit that I started with cassettes. Some of you came a bit earlier, some of you came a bit later. But the thing I want you to think about is that along the way, we stopped using these things and we shifted to the next thing in the sequence there. So I gave up cassettes, I had my Sony Walkman, I was really happy with it. But one day CDs came along and in my college years, I shifted entirely from cassette CDs. And the question is, why did that happen? Now, on the surface, if we had asked the people who invented the CDs what's better about the CDs? They would have said, well, it's a lossless medium. They would have coded bitrate and a lot of technical jargon, signal to noise ratio and things like that, and tell us that there was just better sound quality and that's why everyone switched. But if these subsequent switches, sound quality actually went down after CDs, when we went to MP3 and ipods, and then when we went to streaming, it went down even further. So it wasn't just all about sound quality. There was something else at play here. So something for you to ponder and we'll come back, answer this along the way. But as product people, product managers, entrepreneurs, innovators, we are charged with building better products. But this is the million or billion dollar question, which is, what does better even mean? And that's what we are going to try to unpack today. We'll have some hopefully lively discussion afterwards. Now, when we look at product development methodologies, we can go back 70 years. This has been the answer we have been seeking. We've been trying to build better products over the decades. Over the years, all the way from Lean manufacturing to where we are kind of today Lean Startup Continuous Innovation, those kinds of thinking along the way. It's always been not about just changing the way we build products, but really the search for better. How can we build what our customers want? Sometimes it's about building the things at the lowest price point. So building things profitably and over time it became about building the right thing. We live now in a world where it's easier to build things and so the bigger question is are we building the right things? And so once we started moving into Agile and Lean Startup, those are the questions that kind of prompted how we thought about products from there on out. So I'll kind of home in on the Lean Startup. I know many of you are well versed, this is the product management group and you're probably all familiar with Lean Startup principles, but unfortunately when we use Lean Startup kind of like a bumper sticker and we ask people if you could distill down Lean Startup to one slide, what would that be? This is oftentimes what I typically run into. Let's start with an MVP, let's run a bunch of experiments and iterate our way to something better. So let's quickly rush to build an MVP and then go around this build measure, learn loop, collect data to customers and then build something better. And in theory all of this makes sense. But if we bring in the fact that we are living in this different world than we were five, even ten years ago, I'm not even just talking about the pandemic, I'm just talking about the pace at which things are changing. There are more products being built today than ever before. We all have near equal access to information, to tools and so we can all spin off a startup in our spare time. And so with that we are creating a lot more products than ever before and something has to give. On the other side of the story, there's a lot more competition. Customers today have a lot more choices. So in the time of Waterfall there was the old joke raise enough money to build things twice, one to get it completely wrong, but at least you'll learn and then the second time to get it right. And we're talking about two year cycle times. Build a product first, maybe a year, year and a half, get it wrong and then fix afterwards. Today that's not, we don't have that luxury. So we have to try to get it as right as possible from the get go and then continuously innovate or iterate to make sure that we are a step ahead. So speed of learning today is that new unfair advantage. So customers have a lot more choices today and speed is key. And so when we take this build, measure, learn loop and if we just rush to build an MVP, what typically happens statistically speaking is we get it wrong. And that's, again, just when we look at product launches, most initial products don't actually hit the mark. And when that happens, if you factor in the fact that customers, they have a lot more choices, they don't stick around and give you feedback, they just look for other options. They have a lot more choices. So they leave and look for something better. And then what happens in the product world is the build trap ensues. You launch a product, you're not getting feedback, it's not really working. What do we do? We start iterating. We start pivoting. But those are all in some ways blind labels to those terms because we are iterating or pivoting without learning. And when you're doing that, that's just a disguised see what sticks strategy. So that's where the build trap ensues and we fall into this trap of chasing that mythical killer feature where it seems like we're just one hack away or one silver bullet away from the hockey stick fixing itself and that elusive hockey stick never corrects itself. So that unfortunately is where we see a lot of teams kind of struggle with. And this is partly due to the fact that as I mentioned, customers have a lot more choices. And so when we're not getting the feedback, we go around in circles this way. Today we're going to talk about not necessarily starting with an MVP and I'm not going to make it sound like that's what the Lean Startup prescribes. And that is what a lot of people boil the Lean Startup to, which is let me rush to get my release 10 out because at least we can release early, we can get feedback and then we can iterate from there. So what we're going to talk about is if we don't start with an MVP, what do we do? The thing you want to first realize is that an MVP is nothing more than a solution. And the challenge with solutions is that it's hard to get that right at the outset and so a much better place to start is not with solution but really trying to understand problems and customers and which is the theme of the talk today. So love the problem, not your solution. More easily said than done, which we'll kind of unpack here as we go along. Now, why is this important? Because if we look at products from a customer point of view, customers don't really care about solutions. We don't wake up any given day and saying, I want to go buy this particular product. We don't even care about problems. What we do care about is achieving certain desired outcomes. We want to make progress in our lives. We want to hit certain we basically want to achieve certain outcomes. And the problem of course, is that obstacles get in the way. That's where the problems kind of manifest themselves. So the reason we care about problems is that in order to understand our customers and the outcomes, we have to understand the struggles they're going through while trying to achieve those outcomes. And so when you look at this canvas here, to be able to build a compelling, unique value proposition, which is what all products need to do to stand out, we have to start with who is it for? So we have to understand who we are trying to when you try to market to everyone, you really end up talking to no one. So we have to narrow down and think about who our ideal starting early adopters are. And over time, I guess jeffrey Moore spoke last month. And so when we look at the diffusion curve, we have to start with the early adopters and then figure out where are our customers segments, our 2nd, 3rd customer segments from there on out. So customer segmentation is a very important part of it. But then at the other side, understand what obstacles or struggles are they experiencing and how do we help them overcome that in order to achieve those desired outcomes. Now, what you're seeing here is a partial canvas. Hopefully some of you have seen the full canvas. The canvas is really a tool that helps you think about the story of your idea. So in other words, who is your customer? What's the problem, the solution? And then there are other boxes here where we start talking about channels, go to market, we start talking about metrics, we start talking about pricing. Today we're going to focus more on the desirability side of that story. So when you look at the case, in my opinion, if you don't get customers and problem right, no business model stands a chance. It's like a stack of dominoes that comes crumbling down. And it's kind of easy to see logically if you get the customers wrong, if you're not solving a problem they care about, doesn't matter what solution you have, it doesn't matter even if you have an unfair advantage. If you have a patent or IP that's defensible, it's not really going to matter because no one really cares about it. So even if you drop the price to zero, it wouldn't really matter because it's again not solving a problem. It's not getting the attention of your customers. It would just the whole business model comes crumbling down. So logically, it makes a lot of sense to start with customers and problems before anything else. But this, again, as I mentioned a few minutes ago, is more easily said than done. And the biggest challenge for starting with problems is something that I labeled innovators bias. We all have it as humans, but as entrepreneurs, as innovators, we have it to an extreme level. And the innovator's bias is essentially something that looks like this. When we look at our ideas, we prematurely see it from the lens of our solution. Even if you start with problem, it's just a natural tendency of ours to want to quickly imagine a possible solution to that problem and then we start spending unconsciously every waking moment obsessing about how do we bring the solution to life. And that, as you can imagine, begins to bias or distill or kind of water down a lot of the other assumptions we might have on that canvas. I sometimes call this the hammer problem. Once you have decided you're going to build a hammer, everything starts looking like a nail. So we start pretending or inventing or faking problems just to justify the things that we already know or want to build. And hopefully some of you can relate with that. You've probably seen this in the companies or with the teams you work with. It's very easy to kind of get enamored with the solution and we start not even talking to customers or when we do talk to customers, we put the safety gloves on and we are really looking for validation for things that are in alignment with our worldview versus really trying to challenge them. So that's one of the pitfalls that we fall in with this idea of problems before solutions. The other one, which is if we just went to our customers and even had a conversation about problems many times, not always, but many times, customers do have this bias. And so if any of you have ever looked at your backlogs kind of more closely, you would probably notice that there's a lot of feature ideas in there and many of them are solutions disguised as problems. Your customers ask for features which are not really problem statements, they things they want you to build for them. And many times when you build those things for them, they don't even use them because it doesn't quite solve the root cause of the problem they're really after. And so that's another kind of symptom to the cause of not covering the root cause but really chasing down those surface problems. So that's another thing to kind of just be aware of. It happens a lot. Last piece that kind of makes this pretty challenging is when we try to go and have conversations with our customers. Unless they know you, like you and trust you. It's hard to have a conversation, an honest conversation about problems because it makes your customers feel defensive. They get vulnerable, they're kind of reserved, don't really show all their cards. And so you get a lot of surface problems. And that's where you start getting these features disguised as problems. You get a lot of polite lies which kind of happens rather subtly and unconsciously. And so it's again something to be aware of and that's why love the problem, not your solution, while it makes for a great bumper sticker, is a very hard thing to really put into practice. And so in the next edition of Running Lean this has been a question that I am pondering for a few years now. And so we'll be talking about kind of a different approach of approaching problems, not on. Because if you actually lead with problems, it actually creates a whole bunch of other challenges like the ones I described, putting your customers on the defensive, not really getting to root causes. And so we're going to talk about this other way of thinking about problems. And that's what the innovator's gift is. So I like to think of the innovator's gift as the antidote to the innovator's bias. The innovator's bias is us looking at our solution, trying to imagine the problems it can solve. The innovator's gift comes from a very different premise. The premise is very simple, which is when we are looking for problems we're solving, we don't need to be innovative with problems, we need to be innovative with solutions. So in other words, when you're trying to build something innovative, if you actually build a problem that nobody understands, if it's so innovative of a problem, it's going to fall flat. The best way to find problems worth solving is by trying to study what is there currently and what are people struggling with. So new problems come from old solutions. Maybe sounds very simple, maybe too simple to some of you, but let's try to apply this to the timeline example. So when we look at a story like this one, I described a short story where I had my Sony Walkman and I was pretty happy. But in my college years I shifted to CDs. So why did that happen? It wasn't because of better sound quality back then, I could care less. It was for some other reason. And there'll be a different reason for some of you. But it ends up being not about something new that you can do or a new problem you can solve, but rather going back to something that's already there. What's broken with the existing alternative is the key question to be asking. And if you were at a party trying to get a song played and you had a cassette tape, well, good luck. Because the cassette is an analog medium, to be able to find the right song to play, it would take a few minutes of rewinding and forwarding. But if you had CD, one of the things the CD promised was instant gratification or instant access. You could push a button and hopefully some of you on the call can relate to that story. And you've actually been through this and we'll have some future stories as well to see why we switched to these other things. So hopefully that will where I'll catch some of you. But why did we switch from cassettes to CDs? I would argue it wasn't necessarily because of better sound quality, but because of the pet peeves that we had with cassettes that we learned to live with until one day it was unbearable. So when you have a mixtape, everything is great, but after a while you have that mixtape memorized and you want some randomness so maybe it's the CD shuffle feature or maybe it's the fact that you can actually push that track number and have that instant gratification play songs on demand. Those were the killer features that caused that switch. So not better sound quality, but not a new problem to solve, but rather an existing problem that was always there, that we were just living with. If we kind of fast forward to the next transition here, why did we switch from CDs to MP3 players? If you all remember there was a point in time where we all went into the Napster world and we were told that record labels were just evil. They were making us buy these $20 CDs for a single song. And so the solution back then was just download it for free. Peer to peer was great till they got shut down. But Apple picked up on that and turned it into made deals with the record label, launched the ipod, built a medium that was digital, a lot more portable and all of a sudden we made these massive switches. So in my college years I slowly migrated all my songs from CDs to the MP3 format. Today I don't have any CDs and if I do, they're all scratched up. That was another problem that manifests itself over time. CDs scratch. MP3 s don't scratch. Right? So again, not new problems, old problems that we are living with that when the new solution comes out, we actually make the switch, right? So that's how we switch from CDs to MP3 players. Now why switch to streaming services? Because what Steve Jobs promised us, 1000 songs in our pocket was great when it was first announced, but several decades later that was no longer enough. So 1000 songs in our pocket is not what we need. We want 40 million songs in the cloud. We don't want to own them, we want to rent them and we want them on demand. And why is that? Because again the world of music changed. There was a music explosion where when you and I were growing up we listened to similar types of music. Maybe not the same, but similar types of top ten songs. But when you look at the music genres today, there's just a massive explosion. We probably will have very different tastes today than we had before. So there's a lot of sampling that's happening, a lot of discovery that's happening. A lot more music is being produced. Again, because in that world the cost of music production has also gone down. A lot more music being created. With all those kind of changes in the behaviors, you are seeing an example of a job to be done, evolution. So the job doesn't really change. We all have listened to music for centuries and we'll continue to probably listen to music for centuries if we're still around. But how we listen to that music is going to change. And that's what innovation is fundamentally about. So the job doesn't change. We want to listen to what we like, when we like. We want to make playlists, we want to share with people. Those basic needs don't really change. What's changing is how we are doing this. And that's kind of what this slide hopefully illustrates. The other message over here is that when we are looking for those switching moments, it's not about trying to create something nobody understands. So it's all relative. We switch relative to the previous solution. So don't focus on a new problem to solve, focus on something people are already struggling with the existing alternative and that creates those switching moments. And so all to say that if you were in the music business and looking to invent the next wave of how we listen to music, what comes after streaming services? You notice here I put three question marks because I don't know what that's going to be. But I can say with reasonable confidence that it's going to be better than streaming and it's going to actually solve a problem that streaming is leading on the table. And so the best way to actually uncover the next thing is by studying what the current thing is and then also knowing how to study, which is what we'll start unpacking next. So let's actually talk about the innovator's gift and talk about the three tenets of what goes into the innovator's gift. So when we think about this idea of the innovator gift, there are three basic principles. First one, and I want you to kind of think about all of these. And in the Q and A we can of course go deeper and challenge these assumptions. But the first one here is that new problems come from old solutions. And so by I guess definition, there always has to be an old way. And what I'm saying here is that every product, no matter how disruptive, always had an old alternative. There always was competition. And so I want to actually have you challenge this. If you can think of a disruptive product anytime in the course of history, and we can go back even hundreds of years, thousands of years, if you wish, but anytime in the course of history where there was no competition, where we had this new technology or new solution or new product that had no competition. Let's talk about that in the Q and A section. So that's the first tenant is there's always going to be competition. So whenever you encounter startups and maybe you are one of those teams that think you're doing something so innovative, there's no competition, my answer is that you're probably not thinking broad enough. And so we can unpack a little bit in the Q and A, where does the competition go? So on the lean canvas box, we place that not in the competition box, but in the existing alternative box. And I purposefully chose that term existing alternative. Because when start thinking just in terms of competition, the trap we fall into is we start thinking in terms of people like us or products like us. So if you're building collaboration software, you think my competition is collaboration software. Well, if nobody is using the collaboration software but instead using email, that is actually your true competition. I've seen more startups get killed by email and free spreadsheets like Google spreadsheets or Excel spreadsheets than analytics products or collaboration software. And so the true competition is not again, who we think they are, but rather what the existing alternatives are. And so that's a little bit of why this box is labeled existing alternative. It's really a question of what are people doing today to get this job done or to get this problem solved. When we are studying our customers, that's what we are really looking for. So when we start to build something innovative, step number one is trying to understand. What you're seeing over here is a bit of a customer journey. So there's a customer at the bottom of the hill, they're trying to achieve some desired outcome. Maybe they're trying to go to a workshop, maybe they're trying to learn something, maybe they're trying to go to the grocery store and get food for the week. That's a desired outcome. They're trying to achieve this and they are picking certain popular solutions. And so what we need to do as innovators is step number one is try to understand what does that current reality look like, what are people currently doing? And you'll notice I have highlighted an obstacles or a problem area there because there's always going to be problems. There is no such thing as a perfect solution. Every product out there is going to spit out problems. The question is, is it big enough to switch? And that's what we are always kind of looking for. So that's kind of what the first part of this discovery process is. Let's understand what the customer is doing and where are they struggling. The second tenant over here is innovation is fundamentally about causing a switch from an old way to a new way. So once we can understand what the old way is, once we understand the problems with the old way, we can then start to imagine a possible solution that can displace that. So think of the cassette CD example. So the cassettes were there, that was the popular solution when CDs come along and maybe there was some tech that was invented in an R and D lab somewhere. The innovators in that room are asking themselves how do we market this? How do we take this to market? How do we cause a switch? How do we get people to stop listening to cassettes, to fire the cassette tape and massively switch to the CD? That is that million or billion dollar question. And the way you do this is not by ignoring the popular solution, but by bringing that front and center and asking what's broken it, which is the third tenant. The best way to cause the switch is not by pretending the competition doesn't exist, but rather bringing that elephant out in the room and diffusing it. So basically talking about why C are better than cassettes, not in a meaningless way like sound quality, which nobody understands, but talking about it in cases. So when you're in a party trying to play the song and you need instant access, a CD is a much better solution for that. Or when you're bored with your mixtape and you're trying to shuffle, the CD is a much better solution for that. So thinking of those kinds of use cases are what are going to cause the early adopters and then eventually the dominoes start to fall thereafter. So these are the three tenants and again, I'd like you to challenge these in the Q and A, but let's just quickly recap. So new problems come from old solutions, always an old way. So that first one. So think of anything super disruptive that had no competition. We'd love to discuss that. Innovation is fundamentally about causing a switch from that old way to a new way. And then the best way to cause that switch is by breaking that old way. And so to kind of summarize, when we think of the innovators bias on the left hand side, what we are typically doing is looking at our solution from our lens and asking what problems can I solve? And this is the invention challenge. We have built something new, we don't know who it's for, we don't know the applications. And so we start brainstorming a bunch of possible places. And again, nothing wrong with that approach, but it is almost like starting with a key and then looking for a door. It's not a very optimal way of finding doors that are going to take you places. The other approach here is starting in that same place you may have an invention, but instead of asking what problems can we solve in isolation, we begin to study what is that bigger job that people are trying to do? What is the thing they are trying to achieve and where are they struggling? And use that in your marketing, use that in your positioning and if you can communicate better that way, relative to something people already know, it's going to be a lot more compelling. So that's kind of the message there. Before we go into questions, I want to cover just one last section here and this won't take very long, but this idea of switching and this idea of the bigger context, when we start thinking about causing switch, people often ask how big of a change is required? Do I have to be incrementally better, significantly better? Three times better? Ten times better? How do we really measure that? And. It is important to think about being significantly better. And the reason that is that the incumbent always wins. Think about a service that you have lived with, whether it's your cable service or your Internet service or your phone service. If a new startup came in and just promised you 10%, probably most of you would not switch for that because that is a small enough, small enough value proposition. The risk of going to something new that's been untested is just much greater. And so you don't go forward with it. They have to provide something significantly better to make that happen. And so this is where we'll talk a little bit about how you uncover what significant better means and how do we think not in terms of just functionally better, but rather emotionally better. So when we look at any product, it lives in these two worlds. There is the product world, which is where we find features and benefits. And that's something where we kind of label things like needs. And needs are important. But what's even more important and even irrational, is the wants that people have, the outcomes that people have. You can position your product around the emotional wants that people have, which, by the way, Apple does very well. You can bypass a lot of the functional comparisons that people make and charge premium for your products and do all kinds of things which are rather irrational from a logical perspective. To kind of illustrate this concept, I'll share this little story, and then we'll go to questions. Let me just take a quick look here. Okay, so hopefully you've all seen this code or seen some variant of this code. This was a coat by a Harvard professor, Theodore Levitt, back in the 1960s and 70s. He popularized this notion of not just thinking about features, but thinking about benefits. And it was a very powerful idea. So people don't want a quarter inch drill bit. We don't want a piece of metal. We want the thing the metal does for us. In this case, drill a quarter inch hole. Now, the danger here, while this is a very powerful code, it still promises a functional outcome. And the danger here is that we start asking a question like this one. So if you're a drill bit manufacturer, you might start asking, how do we build better quarter inch holes? And sure enough, you can go and study this, and you find that when people are trying to drill holes in their walls, some of these drill bits start breaking. Maybe that's the top problem you encounter. And so your solution is, well, I'll just go build a stronger drill bit. We'll lace it with titanium, put some Cobwt in there. We've got a stronger drill bit, and it's 40% stronger. Maybe we have a few more sales. This is great from a sustaining innovation perspective in terms of improving a product, but it doesn't prevent from being displaced by some competitor who comes in and changes the game entirely. So it's not a massive switch story. So we all have to do these kinds of improvements in our product but the danger is when we do this for too long we get disrupted by someone else or we get placed by someone else who causes a switch. The way to avoid this is by not falling into the functionally better trap and the reason we know it's functionally better and not desired outcome or emotionally better is when we look at the outcome people on a quarter inch hole, that's not really a desired outcome. I don't know about you but no one has ever brought me into their garage or into their home and showed me a quarter inch hole and said look at this perfectly round quarter inch hole that I was able to drill. What they show me instead is what comes after the hole and that's how we know that this is an intermediate step. And so when you are doing this kind of studies, when you are studying existing solutions it's very common for us product people to get lost in the weeds where we are trying to think of how can we build a better workflow, how can we build a better quarter inch hole? And that's not the bigger context. The bigger context is something that comes after it. So we have to go beyond the quarter inch hole to understand what are people doing with the hole. In this case they are putting a hook on the wall and then what do they do with that hook? They hang a piece of painting and if you are doing an interview with a customer that's when they go from task mode, from chores that I have to do on a weekend to all of a sudden smile comes across their face. That's where you see emotion. That's when they know they can rest and turn on the TV, maybe crack a beer and relax because the chore is done, right? That's when we know the job is done. And so the better question to be asking is not how do we build a quarter inch hole but in this case how do we hang a piece of painting on the wall without even having to drill a hole in the first place? And I'm guessing a lot of you know the answer to that because there is a pretty popular product out there that does this. Exactly and that is this was the MVP by the way of the three M command strip. It started off as really strong glue that they put on a mounting tape that you would have to cut and put on the wall and you can see the use case there. If you're trying to hang some tools in your garage shed you don't need to drill holes in your garage shed. You can just use this mounting tape to hang it and over subsequent years they have built something even friendlier. If you're trying to hang paintings in your indoors, you don't need to drill holes. You can actually just go to the hardware store, buy these command strips and there you've got job done. And so unsurprisingly, this is actually placed in the same aisle as the drill bits because a piece of command strip or a glue is competing with a piece of metal in this context. So when we think in terms of jobs, what are people trying to do? We actually can see the world quite differently. We don't actually have to stop here. So when you are doing this kind of discovery, you can start with the bit, but you can progressively go higher and higher up. So we can ask ourselves why are people hanging paintings on their wall? Maybe this is a new homeowner, they moved into their new house, they're trying to decorate their new home. We could explore their relationship with art. Maybe we realize that they have struggles with finding good art pieces. They get bored of them, they're spending hundreds, if not thousands of dollars on art, but every so often shuffling them through and donating them, getting new pieces of art. Well, what if you could build a rotating art display? And that's what this product is. It looks like a piece of art. Some of you may recognize it from the landing page here, but this is not a painting. This is actually a TV built by Samsung. And many years ago they began to realize that we have a TV. If you can see my background and see this black screen out there, it works really well when it's on. So TV when it's on, but when it's off, it's just an ugly black screen on the wall. What if you could turn it into a piece of art? And that was the question that Samsung began to ask themselves and they did quite a bit of innovation to make this happen. So they did a lot of tech innovation to make the screen flush mount, to take all the signals, the power and the HDMI and drive it through a single cable. So a lot of innovation went into making this happen. But it's essentially a TV that does two jobs. TV when it's on, art when it's off, and they actually charge you quite a bit more than a regular TV to get this done. So again, when we start thinking about this story here, which is somebody who moved into a new house, struggling to hang some paintings on the wall, just by unpacking this story, you can begin to uncover a whole bunch of unmet needs and wants which create these opportunities for innovation. Now, there is a limit to this. If we begin to progressively on the right hand side, you can see the three year old, five wise or ten wise kind of story there. If you keep asking why progressively, you start to get quickly very out of context and very metaphysical in your questions. The good news is that you don't ever have to get that high up. Most innovators that I talk to, most people I talk to kind of get stuck into the solution world. We spend all the time in the drill bit world. Maybe we get to the hooks world. And so even if you can get one or two levels higher and try to chase that bigger context, that's where you're going to find these unmet wants, which are actually more powerful than the unmet needs. A last kind of exercise to kind of think about is when you are thinking about building better products. This is a Cathy Sierra. An old Kathy Sierra coat. That changed. The way that I think about products is you need to ask yourself not how do we build a better X, not how do we build a better product, but how do we build a better user of that product? And so, if we were that drill bit manufacturer, this is the better question. Not how do we build better devices or drill bits to drill better holes, but how do we create better homeowners? And when we start thinking this way, we can begin to offer many other things beyond drill bits. Imagine going into a hardware store and learning how to use a drill bit for free. If that is the biggest anxiety, people aren't buying drill bits because they are scared to drill holes into their pristine walls. Why don't you reduce that anxiety by providing some training? So that could be a way of even the drill bit company taking this to heart and not losing out over command strips or TVs in this case. So the bigger context is where you find these newer spaces of innovation. That's kind of one of the messages that I want to leave you with. Awesome. Ash, thanks so much for a great talk.

Dan Olsen: I love the examples that you shared there.

Ash Maurya: So that's great, man. I really appreciate it.

